h1. Easel Guide

_Currently all asset paths are absolute to the site root, so we're assuming that you're running a virtualhost. See <a href="http://code.google.com/p/virtualhost-sh/">http://code.google.com/p/virtualhost-sh/</a> or use MAMP._

h2. TODO

* print stylesheet
* recordset styles
* rounded corner markup/classes
* example markup
* ruled heading classes
* default padding/borders for inav
* do we need horizontal spacing on code?
* more margin classes?
* padding classes?
* review lineheights on li's, possibly move to a class instead of baseline
* should we extract ruled, and other really specific stuff to extras or elsewhere?
* fixed width dl? class
* dev.css stylesheet
* pagination classes/styles
* nowrap class
* slideshow
<div class="slideshow">
  <div class="slides">
    
  </div>
  <div class="controls">
    <a class="prev"></a>
    <a class="next"></a>
  </div>
</div>

h2. Classes

h3. Layout

* @.container@
* @.wrapper@
* @.header@
* @.footer@
* @.content@
** @.content-main@
** @.content-right@
** @.content-left@

h3. Navigation

* @.nav-main@
* @.nav-local@
* @.nav-sub@
* @.nav-user@
* @.nav-admin@
* @.nav-global@
* @.nav@ -- no specific styles, but can be used to target nav by location (e.g. .header .nav)
* @.hnav@ -- horizontal navigation (floats li's left)
* @.vnav@ -- vertical navigation (stacked vertical nav, links have block display)
* @.inav@ -- inline navigation (e.g. pipe separated text navs)

h3. Forms

Forms can be set up using the @.hform@ or @.vform@ classes on any container of the input (e.g. @form@, @fieldset@, or @div.text@). @.col-x@ classes can be used on inputs, or if all inputs in a @fieldset@ need the same width, you can declare it on the @fieldset@.

* @.text@ -- this class goes for input[type="text"],input[type="password"], textarea 
* @.textarea@ -- include .text and .textarea
* @.select@
* @.file@
* @.checkbox@
* @.radio@
* @.checkboxes@ -- fieldset.checkboxes
* @.radios@ -- fieldset.radios
* @.hform@ -- horizontal form (labels are side by side/inline with inputs)
* @.vform@ -- vertical form (labels are on top of inputs)
* @.multi-line@ -- inputs close to gether sharing a common label (e.g. address/address line 2)
* @.fancy@ -- makes input text bold and adjusts letterspacing for a beefier look
* @.legend@ -- the legend element is a pain to style, so don't be afraid to just use a heading with the class legend.
* @.actions@ -- div.actions, a container for submit, cancel, reset buttons at the end of the form
* @.validate@ -- class to trigger JS validation (e.g. @form.validate@)

h3. Validation/Flash Messages

* @.box@ -- a padded gray box
** @.box.single-line@ -- not neccessary, but if the text is only a single line, this will center it vertically.
** @.box.error@
** @.box.notice@
** @.box.success@
* @.overlay@ -- transparent overlay for ajax form submission
* @.loading@ -- wrapper for ajax spinner
* @.error-summary@ -- error summary displayed before/after forms
* @.error-message@ -- error indicator/description
* @.required-mark@ -- indicator that a field is required (e.g. *)
* @.error@
* @.notice@
* @.success@

h3. Utility Classes

* @.reset@ -- removes most styling for elements
* @.js@ -- attach to html element with JS
* @.js-hide@ -- hide if JS is enabled
* @.js-show@ -- show only if JS is enabled
* @.hide@ -- hide element (display:none)
* @.access@ -- hide element, but retain accessibility
* @.right@ -- float right
* @.left@ -- float left
* @.clear@
* @.center@ -- no float, auto l/r margins (needs a width, or an implied width, like an image)
* @.text-right@
* @.text-left@
* @.text-center@
* @.no-border@
* @.replace@ -- image replacement, useful to group selectors at top of stylsheet
* @.no-margin@
* @.half-margin@ -- 1/2 standard bottom margin for block elements
* @.double-margin@ -- 2X bottom margin for block elements
* @.group@ -- clearfix

h3. Common classes

* @.block@ -- a stackable block with a bottom margin. Margin amount may be equivalent to standard block elements (@p@, @ul@), but not always. Usually clear from site mockups.
* @.alt@ -- zebra row striping, other things alternating/alternate
* @.biglink@ -- JS big links, place on any container with a link inside to link entire container
* @.note@ -- often lighter colors and smaller text
* @.intro@ -- lead in parapraph
* @.framed@ -- for images or linked images
* @.captioned@ -- wrapper for image/caption combo
* @.ruled@ -- ruled list, no bullets
* @.rnd@ -- rounded corners
* @.amp@ -- fancy ampersand
* @.btn@ -- sliding doors buttons/link buttons
* @.inner@
* @.toc@ -- table of contents
* @.slideshow@
* @.branding@
* @.logo@
* @.meta@
* @.callout@
* @.hdg@ -- heading
* @.fixed@ -- fixed width

h3. Common Prefixes

* @.btn-@ -- button
* @.icn-@ -- icon
* @.pho-@ -- photo
* @.li-n@ -- _n_ being sequential numbering of list items. If we need to specifically target list items, (e.g. horizontal image nav), use class @.li-1@, @.li-2@, etc.
* @.logo-@
* @.txt-@ -- images/classes being replaced
* @.hdg-@ -- heading


h3. Common Suffixes

* @-main@
* @-sub@
* @-inner@
* @-outer@
* @-alt@

h2. Comments

h3. File Header

<notextile><pre><code>
/** =screen.css
************************************************************
@project      Easel
@colordef     #808080; dark gray (body copy)
@colordef     #6aa000; lime green (link)
@colordef     #517805; darker lime green (link hover)
@colordef     #eafbd8; light green (link hover bg)
************************************************************/
</code></pre>

h3. Comment heading 

<pre><code>
/** =fonts
************************************************************/
</code></pre></notextile>

h3. Comment Heading (with notes)

<pre><code>
/** =fonts
************************************************************
@see   http://unitinteractive.com/blog/2008/06/26/better-css-font-stacks/
@see   http://www.sitepoint.com/article/eight-definitive-font-stacks/
@see   http://stevecochrane.com/v3/2007/12/13/helvetica-neue-variants-for-use-on-the-web/
************************************************************/
</code></pre></notextile>

h3. Comment Subheading

<pre><code>
/* =margins */
</code></pre></notextile>

h2. CSS formatting

* use hyphens
* all lowercase
* 2 space soft tabs
* observe spacing as below or Karl will hurt you

<notextile><pre>
.class-name {
  color: #fff;
  text-decoration: none;
}
.class-name { color: #fff; }
</pre></notextile>