# Git Commit Message Style

This style guide is taken from Tim Pope's [A Note About Git Commit Messages](http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html).

* The first line should contain a capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary
* More detailed explanatory text can follow, if necessary, after two line breaks.
* Wrap lines after the first at about 72 characters or so.
* Write the message in the **present tense**: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed bug."
* Bullet points are fine. Use a hyphen or asterisk for the bullet, followed by
  a space. Use a hanging indent. Single line break for each bullet is fine.

Here’s a model Git commit message, using the guidelines:

      Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary

      More detailed explanatory text, if necessary.  Wrap it to about 72
      characters or so.  In some contexts, the first line is treated as the
      subject of an email and the rest of the text as the body.  The blank
      line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit
      the body entirely); tools like rebase can get confused if you run the
      two together.

      Write your commit message in the present tense: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed
      bug."  This convention matches up with commit messages generated by
      commands like git merge and git revert.

      Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

      * Bullet points are okay, too
      * Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded by a
        single space
      * Use a hanging indent
